# BeauConstrictor's Place

Hello! I'm Beau.

```
  ~         ~~          __
       _T      .,,.    ~--~ ^^
 ^^   // \                    ~
      ][O]    ^^      ,-~ ~
   /''-I_I         _II____
__/_  /   \ ______/ ''   /'\_,__
  | II--'''' \,--:--..,_/,.-{ },
; '/__\,.--';|   |[] .-.| O{ _ }
:' |  | []  -|   ''--:.;[,.'\,/
'  |[]|,.--'' '',   ''-,.    |
  ..    ..-''    ;       ''. '

```

I'm a low-level systems developer and retro enthusiast. I saw computers from the '70s, '80s and '90s as much simpler, so I spend much of my development time trying to create systems that expose you to the deeper layers of your software stack - early software did this out of necessity, but my programs do it for two very different reasons: education and fun.

I'm not a frontend developer, so this website isn't some flashy design project, but you can reach these pages from 4 different internet protocols, all of which I have implemented from scratch in Nim. See my project 'Quadraserve' if you're curious.

## My projects

These are some of the larger projects that I have worked on recently. You can find more on my Github profile.

=> projects/madlad.gmi Madlad - A modular text editor for Unix
=> projects/ozpex-micro.gmi Ozpex Micro - An 8-bit computer architecture designed for extensibility
=> projects/os-micro.gmi OS/Micro - A full operating system stack and programming language for the Ozpex Micro
=> projects/quadraserve.gmi Quadraserve - A 4-protocol web server that supports CGI-like scripts
=> projects/index.gmi And more...

## My gemlog

=> gemlog/index.gmi I might post things here, or maybe not. It's nice to have.

## About me

I am a self-taught software developer, and have been for 6 years. I got started in the space as most do, by learning Python. I still occasionally use Python as it is indeed an excellent language for quick scripting. However, in the time since I began programming, I have become increasingly curious about how exactly my computer executes the code I write.

This has since led me down a rabbit-hole of learning C, and eventually Assembly (albeit for the 6502 and Z80 architectures), which has undoubtedly improved my understanding of the workings of CPUs - but a functioning machine is more than just a CPU. 

So I created the 'Ozpex' family of projects, where I designed and implemented an emulator for an entirely custom computer architecture and have written a BIOS, bootloader, kernel, filesystem and programming language entirely from scratch, all in assembly to run on that system.

## Contact me

=> mailto:$(EMAIL) By email: $(EMAIL)
