# Ozpex Micro

The Ozpex Micro is a fictional, extensible 8-bit computer architecture similar in intent to the IBM PC de facto standard, but designed to be easy to comprehend and develop software for.

```
            .---.
           /     \
           \.@-@./
           /`\_/`\
          //  _  \\
         | \     )|_
        /`\_`>  <_/ \
     jgs\__/'---'\__/
```

At its core, the Ozpex Micro is essentially a standard that emulators and motherboards must follow in order to be labelled 'Ozpex Micro-compatible'. I have developed an emulator (and small BIOS) for this architecture so that I can run software that I design for it without having to build a physical, compliant computer.

If your confused, don't worry. It can be hard to understand what exactly the Ozpex family is. Hopefully this clears it up: 'Ozpex' is a designed architecture and software stack implemented in software in the modern day, not a physical hardware standard from the 70s/80s.

=> os-micro.gmi If you want to get some serious software running on the Micro, you can try to boot my custom operating system, OS/M.
=> /~beauconstrictor/git/ozpex-micro.git Ozpex Micro's git repository, if you want to try it out

## Designing the spec

I began this project simply because I had an idea in my head: I wanted to create a computer architecture that people who (like me) are fascinated by low-level computing systems and standards can develop software for without the headaches of ensuring compliance with the backward-compatible mess that makes up modern computers.

At the core of the spec is the block device system. A motherboard or emulator can support up to 256 different block devices - expansion cards with standardised APIs that allow each and every unique hardware configuration to be recognised and accepted gracefully by the operating system.

Complementing the block device system are the 256 different serial ports. Unlike the much more general purpose block devices, these are easy-access ports that progams can write bytes to to get them to appear on the screen or a printer. Software can't enumerate these ports like they can with block devices, so they are usually used when a user decides to print a file. The program will prompt the user for the number of a serial port and it will just write the bytes to it, no questions asked. Serial port 0 is a special case that is guaranteed to map to the computer's terminal or display, and is the primary way of interacting with the computer.

I chose the Z80 microprocessor - the cult-classic 8-bit CPU that powered CP/M, the real historical operating system that OS/M draws many parallels to.

## Building the emulator

For the emulator, I quickly began to implement the Z80's ISA in C with little direction. Eventually, I decided to go for a modular design, and the block device system quickly materialised in my head. Most of the architecture's defining features are implemented in the source file '/src/bdev.c', which implements the block device system.

=> https://github.com/beauconstrictor/ozpex-128 An earlier project of mine that I wrote a 6502 emulator for. This project is where most of the Ozpex Micro's philosophy originated.

```
$ ozm --help
ozm (Ozpex Micro Emulator) v0.1.0
Copyright (c) 2026 Beau Constrictor
License GPLv2: GNU GPL version 2 <https://gnu.org/licenses/gpl.html>.
This is free software: you are free to change and redistribute it.
There is NO WARRANTY, to the extent permitted by law.

Written by Beau Constrictor.
```

This emulator was my first foray into proper command-line option parsing in C, so I was intrigued to learn about 'getopt', the standard iterator-based way of implementing options.

The emulator is still not even remotely finished, and only supports about 15% of the Z80's instructions, but in practice this covers 95% of the instructions that you actually use.
